hi it's Kyle Leon here I want to make a
short video for you today about the
muscle building strategy of bulking then
cutting and also offer you some
information that will help you if
bulking then cutting is not the right
strategy for you but you're still
looking to put on some muscle bulking is
a strategy used to build muscle by
putting our bodies into a large caloric
surplus for a predetermined amount of
time basically bringing in more calories
than our body burns off and cutting
refers to the time needed to lose the
excess body fat this strategy is based
on sound logic because it is common
knowledge that our bodies need to be in
a caloric surplus to be able to build
muscle and many bodybuilders have used a
strategy with a lot of success the
obvious problem of course is that when
our bodies are in a large caloric
surplus we will experience fat gain as
well this is just an accepted fact with
the bulking and cutting strategy
unfortunately recent research suggests
that there are a lot of other problems
that you're probably not aware of that
are associated with this old-school
strategy one big less known about
problem is fat cell hyperplasia this is
when our bodies are forced to create
more fat cells because of all of the
excess calories coming in that our
bodies can't use towards muscle growth
and here's the thing these fat cells
never ever go away so even when you do
go through the cutting phase of this
strategy and get down to a really really
low body fat percentage these new fat
cells will still be there having more
fat cells makes it easier for us to
store fat for the rest of our lives when
we mess up on our diet we really don't
need to feel any more guilty on our
cheat days now do we the take-home
message is we can't force our bodies
into building more muscle than is
physiologically able to build by just
ramping up our calories doing so will
most definitely backfire other less
known about problems with the
traditional bulking approach include
things like liver strain pancreatic
strain increase cholesterol increased
blood pressure fluid retention aka puffy
moonface look thyroid problems insulin
resistance and the list goes on
long and short of it is on top of the
excess fat gain the traditional balking
approach can make it much more difficult
for us to have a nice lean healthy
future and these are things you should
be aware of the good news is with recent
advancements in nutrition there are
alternatives to the traditional balking
approach that can be just as effective
at building muscle but without the fat
and the other health problems that are
associated with the traditional bulk
approach to put it very simply the
solution to the traditional balking
approach comes down to giving your body
what it needs when it can use it and not
giving your body extra fuel when it
can't use it now that is a lot easier
said than done because there are so many
variables that determine what those
exact needs are because all of us are
different that's why the best pro
bodybuilders fitness models Fitness
competitors actually go out and hire
professional nutrition coaches to tailor
the programs to them that being said
even though I don't know you or your
body type a valuable tip I can give you
is to consume your daily caloric surplus
in a four-hour window surrounding your
workout ok and do so only in the form of
protein and carbohydrates and that will
actually have you on your way to
building some lean muscle without fat
now for more detailed information on the
solution to the traditional balking
approach you can check out the free
presentation in the link below if you'd
like but other than that thank you very
very much for your time I hope you learn
something useful and I'll talk to you
soon
you